#General meeting

###Members present:
 - Daniel Selmes
 - Daniel Chin

###What we talked about:
 - Discussed where to find codumentation for dead souls - http://www.dead-souls.net/doc/build
 - Future goals for the project, and the deadline - It's coming up! AAAAHAHHHH HURRY!
 - User documentation - A nicely formatted word doc
 - Technical documentation - Should be taken care of with sandcastle
 - Interface - We might consider coloring some parts of it, but it's only a possibility, and it'll come after we finish the functionality. Function before form!
 
